# Smart-Health-Device-Data-Analysis
Analysis/visualization of patient data collected from Nokia Smart Health devices, as part of my research at the Johns Hopkins School of Medicine.


## Introduction
This project seeks to analyze the connected health wearable data from an Institutional Review Board (IRB)-approved pilot of ~50 Heart Failure patients at Johns Hopkins Bayview Medical Center, and is sponsored by Nokia Health and Stanford Medicine X as part of a Global Challenge to create value out of wearable data. 



## Data
Two datasets were used for the visualizations and analyses of this project. While the datasets are not uploaded onto this repository due to patient confidentiality, they can be made available for those who request them.  
#### 1. Devices_data.csv: 
The data includes wearable device data from Nokia Steel Heart Rate Smartwatch, Wireless Blood Pressure Monitor, and Body Wi-Fi Scale, all linked to Nokia’s Health Mate smartphone application with data acquisition backend. In its raw form, the dataset is an unsorted table with 8905 rows, and 5 columns. Each row corresponds to a specific recorded measurement, while the table below summarizes the columns of the dataset.  

| Column | Datatype | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Email | String | The email of the patient whose measurement was recorded. |
| Date_measurement | String | The date at which the measurement was recorded. Depending on the type of measurement, this could include the specific time as well, recorded as a Unix timestamp. |
| Value_measurement | numpy.float64 | The numerical value of the measurement recorded. |
| Unit_measurement | String | The unit of the measurement recorded. For example, Weight measurements were recorded in units of kg. |
| Type_measurement | String | The type of measurement recorded. There were a total of 13 different types of measurement recorded, ranging from 'Weight' to 'Heart rate from BP'. |  

#### 2. Date_used.xlsx:  
This dataset is a table that lists the start date for each patient in the study. The start date refers to the date in which the patient began to have his or her vitals recorded by the wearable devices.   




## Methodology
I conducted data cleaning and visualization of the data for these patients, and used insights generated by the visualizations to develop custom risk scores for each patient that quantify how far a patient’s measurements deviate from what is considered to be a ‘normal’, healthy range. Due to confidentiality reasons, specific insights derived from the visualizations cannot be disclosed at this moment, but I have detailed my notebooks with steps explaining to a certain degree the progression of this project, as instructed by my Personal Instructor. The results of this work are going to be submitted as a peer-reviewed manuscript.
